// Unity Manual: Platforms_Overview
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/PlatformSpecific.html

Platform development
Use the Multiplayer Center
Cross-platform features and considerations
Platform development
Important
: A critical security vulnerability has been identified affecting games and applications built with Unity 2017.1 and later for Android, Windows, macOS, and Linux. To learn more about this vulnerability and the action you must take, refer to
Unity Platform Protection: Developer Remediation Guide
.
Before starting out with the Unity Editor, you might want to familiarize yourself with the platforms that you can create your projects in. Unity supports most of the leading desktop, web, and mobile platforms as follows:
Topic
Description
Cross-platform features and considerations
Lists the features that are applicable across multiple platforms.
Android
Includes information about the concepts, requirements, settings among other essential details required to develop Unity applications on Android platform.
Dedicated Server
Provides information about developing Unity applications on Dedicated Server platform that you can use to develop multiplayer games.
Embedded systems
Includes information about developing Unity applications for embedded systems, such as Embedded Linux and QNX.
iOS
Explains about developing Unity applications on the iOS mobile platform using tools, settings, and iOS-specific development information.
Linux
Includes information about developing Unity applications on the Linux desktop platform that includes settings available in the Unity Editor for Linux platform, Linux Player build binaries, and troubleshooting.
macOS
Explains how to build and develop Unity applications on the macOS platform along with the macOS settings in the Unity Editor.
tvOS
Includes tvOS requirements and compatibility, Unity Editor
Player settings
Settings that let you set various player-specific options for the final game built by Unity.
More info
See in
Glossary
information that you can use while developing Unity applications on tvOS platform.
UWP
Explains how to develop, build, and deliver Unity applications on Universal Windows Platform.
visionOS
Includes information about the requirements and how to get started with developing Unity applications on visionOS platform.
Web
Explains how to develop Unity applications for the Web platform and includes information about compatibility, limitations, and Unity Editor settings. Also includes guidance about developing for Facebook Instant Games.
Windows
Includes information about the tools and settings to develop Unity applications on Windows platform.
Note:
If you are a developer with access to
Closed platforms
Includes platforms that require confidentiality and legal agreements with the platform provider for using their developer tools and hardware. These platforms aren’t open to development unless you have an established relationship with the provider. For example PlayStation®, Game Core for Xbox®, and Nintendo®.
See in
Glossary
, you might have more platform options after you download and register your preferred platform setup. For more information, visit the
Platform Module Installation
page.
For a full list of platforms that Unity supports and to know the minimum system requirements for these platforms, refer to
System Requirements
.
Additional resources and examples
💡
Resources
:
Target platforms roadmap
👥
Community
:
Join the conversation on Unity Discussions for Platforms
📖
E-Book
:
Create virtual and mixed reality experiences in Unity
📖
E-Book
:
Optimize your game performance for mobile, XR, and Web in Unity (Unity 6)
📖
E-Book
:
Optimize your game performance for consoles and PCs in Unity (Unity 6)
Use the Multiplayer Center
Cross-platform features and considerations
