// Unity Manual: UI
// Section: UI
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/UIToolkits.html

// Content:
UI systems
IME in Unity
Comparison of UI systems in Unity
UI systems
Unity provides three UI systems: UI Toolkit, uGUI, and IMGUI. You can use these systems to create user interfaces (UI) for the Unity Editor and applications made in the Unity Editor.
Topic
Description
Comparison of UI systems in Unity
Unity intends for
UI Toolkit
to become the recommended UI system for new UI development projects, but it still lacks some features available in uGUI and IMGUI. These legacy systems are better suited for certain use cases and are required to support legacy projects. Choose a UI system based on the type of UI you need to develop and the features it requires.
UI Toolkit
The latest UI system, designed for optimized performance across platforms and inspired by standard web technologies. Use UI Toolkit to create extensions for the Unity Editor, and to create runtime UI for games and applications.
Create vector graphics
Use the vector graphics API to create and manipulate vector graphics in your UI.
uGUI (Unity UI)
A legacy, GameObject-based UI system for developing runtime UI for games and applications. uGUI uses components and the Game view to arrange, position, and style the UI.
IMGUI (Immediate Mode GUI)
A legacy, code-driven UI system that uses the
OnGUI
function to draw and manage UI. Use IMGUI to create custom
Inspectors
A Unity window that displays information about the currently selected GameObject, asset or project settings, allowing you to inspect and edit the values.
More info
See in
Glossary
for script components, extensions for the Unity Editor, and in-game debugging displays. It’s not recommended for runtime UI.
Additional resources
📚
Documentation
:
Get started with UI Toolkit
📚
Documentation
:
uGUI API reference
👥
Community
:
Join the conversation on Unity Discussions
IME in Unity
Comparison of UI systems in Unity
Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09.
Tutorials
Community Answers
Knowledge Base
Forums
Asset Store
Terms of use
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
