// Unity Manual: Physics integrations in Unity
// Section: Physics
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/physics-integrations.html

// Content:
Physics
Physics integrations in Unity
Physics Profiler module
Disable and strip the physics integration from your project
Physics integrations in Unity
Unity helps you simulate physics in your Project to ensure that the objects correctly accelerate and respond to
collisions
A collision occurs when the physics engine detects that the colliders of two GameObjects make contact or overlap, when at least one has a Rigidbody component and is in motion.
More info
See in
Glossary
, gravity, and various other forces. Unity provides different physics system implementations which you can use according to your project needs: 3D, 2D, object-oriented, or data-oriented.
You can create some basic physics interactions with the user interface, but for more control over the simulation, you need some familiarity with C#. To develop your C# skills, refer to the Unity Learn
Junior Programmer
course.
Built-in physics systems for object-oriented projects
If your project is
object-oriented
, use the Unity’s built-in physics system that corresponds to your needs:
Built-in 3D physics
: Uses an integration of the Nvidia PhysX engine by default.
Built-in 2D physics
: Uses an integration of Box2D
physics engine
A system that simulates aspects of physical systems so that objects can accelerate correctly and be affected by collisions, gravity and other forces.
More info
See in
Glossary
by default.
Physics engine packages for data-oriented projects
If your project uses Unity’s Data-Oriented Technology Stack (DOTS), you need to install the
Unity Physics
package. Unity Physics is the DOTS physics engine that simulates physics in a data-oriented project.
Additional resources
Physics
Physics project settings
2D physics
Built-in 3D physics
Unity Physics package
Havok Physics for Unity package
Physics Profiler module
Disable and strip the physics integration from your project
Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09.
Tutorials
Community Answers
Knowledge Base
Forums
Asset Store
Terms of use
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
