// Unity Manual: Audio reference
// Section: Audio
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/class-AudioManager.html

// Content:
The Editor interface
Project Settings
Audio
Use the Project Settings window
Editor
Audio
The
Audio
settings (main menu:
Edit
>
Project Settings
, then select the
Audio
category) allows you to tweak the maximum volume of all sounds playing in the scene.
Audio settings
Property
Function
Global Volume
Set the volume for all sounds during playback.
Volume Rolloff Scale
Set the global attenuation rolloff factor for
Logarithmic rolloff-based sources
. The higher the value, the faster the volume attenuates. Conversely, the lower the value, the slower it attenuates.
Tip:
A value of 1 simulates the “real world”.
Doppler Factor
Set how audible the Doppler effect is. Use 0 to disable it. Use 1 make it audible for fast moving objects.
Tip:
After setting the
Doppler Factor
to 1, you can tweak both
Speed of Sound
and
Doppler Factor
until you are satisfied.
Default Speaker Mode
Set which speaker mode should be the default for your project. The default is 2, which corresponds to stereo speakers. For the full list of modes, see the
AudioSpeakerMode
API reference.
Note:
You can also change the speaker mode at runtime through scripting. See
Audio Settings
for details.
System Sample Rate
Set the output sample rate. If set to 0, Unity uses the sample rate of the system.
Note:
This only serves as a reference only, since certain platforms allow you to change the sample rate, such as iOS or Android.
DSP Buffer Size
Set the size of the DSP buffer to optimize for latency or performance. Latency is a measure of how long it takes for the audio output to react to input / API commands. The following options are available:
Default
- Default buffer size.
Best Latency
- Trade off performance in favour of latency. Audio responds faster but uses more system resources.
Good Latency
- Balance between latency and performance.
Best Performance
- Trade off latency in favour of performance. Audio has a slight delay but the system runs more efficiently.
Max Virtual Voices
Set the number of virtual voices that the audio system manages. This value should always be larger than the number of voices played by the game. If not, Unity displays warnings in the console.
Max Real Voices
Set the number of real voices that can play at the same time. At every frame, the loudest voice is picked.
Spatializer Plugin
Choose which native audio plugin to use in order to perform spatialized filtering of 3D sources.
Ambisonic Decoder Plugin
Choose which native audio plugin to perform ambisonic-to-binaural filtering of sources.
Disable Unity Audio
Enable to deactivate the audio system in standalone builds.
In the Editor the audio system is still on and supports previewing audio clips, but Unity does not handle calls to
AudioSource.Play
and
AudioSource.playOnAwake
in order to simulate behavior of the standalone build.
Enable Output Suspension
Automatically suspends audio output after it detects the output has been silent for a long duration (editor only). Suspending the audio system disables the mechanism in the operating system that prevents the computer going into sleep mode.
Virtualize Effect
Enable to dynamically turn off effects and spatializers on AudioSources that are culled in order to save CPU.
AudioManager
Use the Project Settings window
Editor
Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09.
Tutorials
Community Answers
Knowledge Base
Forums
Asset Store
Terms of use
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
