// Unity Manual Page: Graphics performance and profiling
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/graphics-performance-profiling.html
// Content Length: 1921 characters

// Manual Content:
Optimization Graphics performance and profiling Profiler command line arguments Reduce rendering work on the CPU or GPU Graphics performance and profiling This section contains information on understanding and improving rendering performance. Page Description Reduce rendering work on the GPU or CPU Reduce the amount of rendering on the CPU or the GPU, or increase the rendering frame rate. Collect rendering data Resources for using the Frame Debugger window and the Frame Timing Manager to check and debug rendering issues. Optimize rendering lots of objects Techniques for speeding up rendering by reducing the number of drawing commands the CPU sends to the GPU. Graphics performance and profiling in URP Resources for understanding and improving rendering performance in the Universal Render Pipeline A series of operations that take the contents of a Scene, and displays them on a screen. Unity lets you choose from pre-built render pipelines, or write your own. More info See in Glossary (URP). Graphics performance and profiling in the Built-In Render Pipeline Resources for understanding and improving rendering performance in the Built-In Render Pipeline. Graphics performance and profiling reference Explore properties and settings in the Frame Debugger window and the Rendering Statistics window. Further resources Optimize shaders Optimize for mobile Optimize for untethered XR devices Graphics rendering: Getting the best performance with Unity 6 Performance tips and tricks from a Unity consultant Rendering Profiler module Profiler command line arguments Reduce rendering work on the CPU or GPU Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09. Tutorials Community Answers Knowledge Base Forums Asset Store Terms of use Legal Privacy Policy Cookies Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
