// Unity Manual Page: Boost rendering performance
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/render-pipelines.html
// Content Length: 3053 characters

// Manual Content:
Render pipelines Property Binder component Introduction to render pipelines Render pipelines HDRP scene template A render pipeline performs a series of operations that take the contents of a scene A Scene contains the environments and menus of your game. Think of each unique Scene file as a unique level. In each Scene, you place your environments, obstacles, and decorations, essentially designing and building your game in pieces. More info See in Glossary , and displays them on a screen. Page Description Introduction to render pipelines Understand render pipelines and rendering paths The technique that a render pipeline uses to render graphics. Choosing a different rendering path affects how lighting and shading are calculated. Some rendering paths are more suited to different platforms and hardware than others. More info See in Glossary . Scriptable Render Pipeline fundamentals Understand how Unity’s Scriptable Render Pipeline (SRP) works, and learn key concepts and terminology applicable to the Universal Render Pipeline (URP), the High Definition Render Pipeline (HDRP), and custom render pipelines that are based on SRP. Choosing a render pipeline Resources for comparing the different render pipelines in Unity, and choosing the right one for your project. Rendering paths in Unity Learn about the forward and deferred rendering paths in Unity. Using the Universal Render Pipeline (URP) Use URP, a Scriptable Render Pipeline that lets you create scalable graphics across a wide range of platforms. Using the High Definition Render Pipeline (HDRP) Use HDRP, a Scriptable Render Pipeline that lets you create cutting-edge, high-fidelity graphics on high-end platforms. Using the Built-In Render Pipeline Use the default render pipeline, a general purpose render pipeline with limited options for customization. Additional resources and examples 👥 Community : Join the conversation on Unity Discussions for Graphics 📖 E-Book : Introduction to the Universal Render Pipeline for advanced creators (Unity 6 edition) 📺 Video : The URP 3D Sample - a short introduction 📖 E-Book : Create popular shaders and visual effects with the Universal Render Pipeline (Unity 6 edition) 📺 Video : 20 advanced 2D shader effects - part 1 📺 Video : 20 advanced 2D shader effects - part 2 📺 Video : Compute shaders - Part 1: Particle fun 📺 Video : Compute shaders - Part 2: Flocking 📺 Video : Compute shaders - Part 3: Vertex animation 📺 Video : Introduction to the Render Graph in Unity 6 📺 Video : Understanding URP settings and essentials 📚 Documentation : Choose a lighting setup 📚 Documentation : Creating a custom render pipeline 📚 Documentation : Graphics performance and profiling Property Binder component Introduction to render pipelines Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09. Tutorials Community Answers Knowledge Base Forums Asset Store Terms of use Legal Privacy Policy Cookies Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
