// Unity Manual: Disable and strip the physics integration from your project
// Section: Physics
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/physics-remove-backend.html

// Content:
Physics
Disable and strip the physics integration from your project
Physics integrations in Unity
Input
Disable and strip the physics integration from your project
Disable and strip the physics integration SDK from your project to meet specific performance or feature requirements.
Unity supports a number of versatile and performant
physics engine integrations
. However, if your project doesn’t require physics simulation, you can disable and even remove the physics integration entirely from your project. This can result in a smaller build size for certain build platforms and more optimized resource usage. When you do, all physics-related functionality, such as physics APIs and components, no longer work in your project.
If you enabled
Strip Engine Code
in
Project settings
A broad collection of settings which allow you to configure how Physics, Audio, Networking, Graphics, Input and many other areas of your project behave.
More info
See in
Glossary
, you must set
GameObject
The fundamental object in Unity scenes, which can represent characters, props, scenery, cameras, waypoints, and more. A GameObject’s functionality is defined by the Components attached to it.
More info
See in
Glossary
SDK
in the
Physics
Project Settings
None
to strip the code of all built-in physics integrations alongside other engine code.
To strip the physics integration from your project:
Select
Edit > Project Settings
to open the Project Settings window.
Select the
Physics
tab.
In the
GameObject SDK
dropdown, select
None
.
Restart the Editor for your change to take effect.
Additional resources
Physics
Physics integrations in Unity
Physics project settings
Physics integrations in Unity
Input
Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09.
Tutorials
Community Answers
Knowledge Base
Forums
Asset Store
Terms of use
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
