// Unity Manual: Sprites
// Section: 2D
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/sprite/sprite-landing.html

// Content:
2D game development
Sprites
2D renderer sorting
Image import as sprites
Sprites
Sprites are a type of 2D
asset
Any media or data that can be used in your game or project. An asset may come from a file created outside of Unity, such as a 3D Model, an audio file or an image. You can also create some asset types in Unity, such as an Animator Controller, an Audio Mixer or a Render Texture.
More info
See in
Glossary
you can use in your Unity project. Use this section to learn how to set up your
sprites
A 2D graphic objects. If you are used to working in 3D, Sprites are essentially just standard textures but there are special techniques for combining and managing sprite textures for efficiency and convenience during development.
More info
See in
Glossary
and manage them with different components.
If you’re used to working in 3D, sprites are similar to standard textures but there are special techniques to combine and manage sprite textures for efficiency during development.
Important:
You must have the
2D Sprite
package installed to have the following features. This package is part of the
2D feature set
and is automatically installed if you select the
2D template
when creating a new project. You can also manually install this package via
Unity’s Package Manager
.
Topic
Description
Import images as sprites
Import images and set them up as sprites.
Sort sprites
Sort your sprites in Unity.
Sprite Renderer
Display images as sprites in both 2D and 3D
scenes
A Scene contains the environments and menus of your game. Think of each unique Scene file as a unique level. In each Scene, you place your environments, obstacles, and decorations, essentially designing and building your game in pieces.
More info
See in
Glossary
.
Temporary placeholder sprites
Use placeholder sprites in your project.
Sprite Editor
Prepare and edit sprites sliced from a larger image texture.
Sorting Groups
Use Sorting Groups to group
GameObjects
The fundamental object in Unity scenes, which can represent characters, props, scenery, cameras, waypoints, and more. A GameObject’s functionality is defined by the Components attached to it.
More info
See in
Glossary
together with
Sprite Renderers
A component that lets you display images as Sprites for use in both 2D and 3D scenes.
More info
See in
Glossary
.
9-slicing sprites
Apply 9-slicing to reuse your sprites in various sizes.
Sprite Mask
Hide or reveal parts of a sprite or a group of sprites.
Sprite Atlas
Optimize the performance of video memory in your project.
Sprite Shape Renderer
Control the geometry and rendering of a Sprite Shape in a scene.
Additional resources
2D
API documentation on Sprite
2D renderer sorting
Image import as sprites
Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09.
Tutorials
Community Answers
Knowledge Base
Forums
Asset Store
Terms of use
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
