// Unity Manual Page: Multiplayer game creation
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/multiplayer.html
// Content Length: 2727 characters

// Manual Content:
Multiplayer Unity XR SDK Unity multiplayer overview Multiplayer A multiplayer project can host many users in the same project, either locally or through a networked server. To build a multiplayer game, use a combination of Unity’s multiplayer packages and services. Refer to the Unity multiplayer overview for more information or refer to the additional resources on this page . If you’re just getting started with multiplayer games, the recommended entry point is the Multiplayer Center package , which suggests Unity multiplayer packages based on the needs of your game, and gives you access to samples and tutorials to help you use them. Topic Description Unity multiplayer overview Understand Unity’s multiplayer packages and services. Use the Multiplayer Center Select the type of multiplayer game you want to make, install the packages Unity recommends, and follow the quickstart guidance to set them up in your project. Netcode for GameObjects Unity’s high-level networking logic for multiplayer games. Netcode for Entities Develop a multiplayer project that uses Unity’s Data Oriented Technology Stack (DOTS) . Unity Transport The low-level networking library that Netcode for GameObjects The fundamental object in Unity scenes, which can represent characters, props, scenery, cameras, waypoints, and more. A GameObject’s functionality is defined by the Components attached to it. More info See in Glossary and Netcode for Entities use. Dedicated server package Switch a project, its GameObjects, and its components between the server and client role. This package requires a project that uses the dedicated server platform. Multiplayer services The Multiplayer services package provides an SDK that uses Sessions to define how groups of players interact in your game. It also includes namespaces that you can use to control the following underlying services: • Lobby • Relay • Matchmaker • Multiplay Hosting Multiplayer Widgets Use Multiplayer Widgets to test specific stages of the Multiplayer Sessions workflow without the need to write any code. Multiplayer Play Mode Simulate up to four players on a single development device. Multiplayer Tools Tools that you can use to analyze, debug, and test your multiplayer game. Additional resources Dedicated server Multiplayer services sessions for the Unity Engine 👥 Community : Join the conversation on Unity Discussions Unity XR SDK Unity multiplayer overview Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09. Tutorials Community Answers Knowledge Base Forums Asset Store Terms of use Legal Privacy Policy Cookies Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
