// Unity Manual Page: Unlock possibilities with Unity AI
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/unity-ai.html
// Content Length: 2386 characters

// Manual Content:
Unity AI Get started with 3D game development Access Unity AI features from the AI menu Unity AI Use Unity AI to accelerate development, automate workflows, and generate assets with artificial intelligence (AI) tools integrated into the Unity Editor and Unity Dashboard. Unity AI provides the following tools to help you move faster from concept to creation: Assistant : provides in-Editor guidance to write code, troubleshoot, and automate tasks. Generators : creates assets, such as sprites A 2D graphic objects. If you are used to working in 3D, Sprites are essentially just standard textures but there are special techniques for combining and managing sprite textures for efficiency and convenience during development. More info See in Glossary , textures, sounds, animations, and materials, based on text prompts or reference inputs. Sentis : enables you to integrate and run trained machine learning (ML) models on end-user devices or directly in the Unity Editor. You can also use the Unity Dashboard - a cloud-based interface that provides a centralized view of your AI usage, settings, and point tracking. It helps you monitor activity, manage configurations, and control access to Unity AI features across your projects. For more information, refer to the Unity Dashboard AI settings . Topic Description Access Unity AI features from the AI menu Use the AI menu in the Unity Editor to access Assistant, Generators, and AI settings. Assistant documentation Use the generative AI Assistant in the Unity Editor to help write code, fix issues, and automate tasks. Generators documentation Generate game development assets, such as sprites, textures, sounds, materials, and animations. Sentis documentation Integrate and run machine learning models in your Unity projects during runtime or in the Editor. Unity Dashboard AI settings Track usage, manage Unity AI point allocations, and control organization-level AI settings in Unity Dashboard. Additional resources Assistant Generators Sentis Get started with 3D game development Access Unity AI features from the AI menu Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09. Tutorials Community Answers Knowledge Base Forums Asset Store Terms of use Legal Privacy Policy Cookies Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
