// Unity Manual: Object-oriented development
// Section: Scripting
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/object-oriented-development.html

// Content:
Programming in Unity
Object-oriented development
Diff tool support
Fundamental Unity types
Object-oriented development
Traditional Unity projects are grounded in object-oriented design principles and programming philosophy, which is centered around objects, their properties and functions, and the relations between these objects. Code is organized around
GameObjects
The fundamental object in Unity scenes, which can represent characters, props, scenery, cameras, waypoints, and more. A GameObject’s functionality is defined by the Components attached to it.
More info
See in
Glossary
whose behavior is controlled by attached
MonoBehaviour
components
A functional part of a GameObject. A GameObject can contain any number of components. Unity has many built-in components, and you can create your own by writing scripts that inherit from MonoBehaviour.
More info
See in
Glossary
. In general, these MonoBehaviour components encapsulate logic (methods) and data (fields) together, which can be convenient but can have performance issues at scale.
An alternative to object-oriented development is data-oriented development, which is both a design philosophy and a set of technologies that help you implement that philosophy. This approach stresses a clear separation between code and data to maximize CPU cache efficiency and parallelism. Instead of MonoBehaviours, the
Entity Component System (ECS)
architecture uses components for data, and systems for logic. The data-oriented approach offers strong performance advantages at scale but can be more challenging for inexperienced developers to learn.
Object-oriented and data-oriented development are not mutually exclusive and you can combine elements from both. For information on data-oriented development, refer to
Unity’s Data-Oriented Technology Stack
.
Topic
Description
Fundamental Unity types
Understand some of the fundamental C# types that Unity provides and their special significance and behavior in the Unity Editor and runtime.
Managing update and execution order
Understand the order in which Unity executes your script components and the lifecycle callbacks within those
scripts
A piece of code that allows you to create your own Components, trigger game events, modify Component properties over time and respond to user input in any way you like.
More info
See in
Glossary
during the runtime application loop.
Managing time and frame rate
Understand how Unity measures time so you can manage the rate at which time passes in your application and ensure values update according to the appropriate time scale.
Split tasks across frames with coroutines
Split the execution of a task synchronously across multiple
scenes
A Scene contains the environments and menus of your game. Think of each unique Scene file as a unique level. In each Scene, you place your environments, obstacles, and decorations, essentially designing and building your game in pieces.
More info
See in
Glossary
with coroutines. This can be useful for tasks that should progress gradually over several frames, such as a fade out effect.
Interacting with web servers
Use the UnityWebRequest system to allow your application to interact with a web server via HTTP.
Handle type data generically with Unity Properties
Use the Unity Properties API to generically discover and manipulate object properties at runtime.
Programming with mathematics
Use Unity’s mathematical APIs to apply trigonometric, logarithmic, and other functions in your application, move objects with vectors, and generate random values.
Additional resources
Unity’s Data-Oriented Technology Stack
GameObject
Diff tool support
Fundamental Unity types
Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09.
Tutorials
Community Answers
Knowledge Base
Forums
Asset Store
Terms of use
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
