// Unity Manual Page: Advanced best practice guides
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/best-practice-guides.html
// Content Length: 7804 characters

// Manual Content:
Best practice guides Unity Services UI Toolkit for advanced Unity developers Best practice guides Discover and learn production-tested best practices from Unity experts in the following areas: Art and design DevOps Graphics & rendering Performance optimization Scripting Art and design Create virtual and mixed reality experiences in Unity Read this e-book to get practical tips for working with the VR Virtual Reality More info See in Glossary template in Unity, the XR An umbrella term encompassing Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR) and Mixed Reality (MR) applications. Devices supporting these forms of interactive applications can be referred to as XR devices. More info See in Glossary Interaction Toolkit, Apple Vision Pro and visionOS, and more. The definitive guide to animation in Unity This guide aims to provide animators and technical artists with an in-depth understanding of the animation features in Unity. Learn about importing and exporting animations, humanoid animations An animation using humanoid skeletons. Humanoid models generally have the same basic structure, representing the major articulate parts of the body, head and limbs. This makes it easy to map animations from one humanoid skeleton to another, allowing retargeting and inverse kinematics. More info See in Glossary , shortcuts, animating UI, events, and more. 2D game art, animation, and lighting for artists Authored by the art director of the Unity 2D demo Dragon Crashers and with contributions from Unity 2D experts, this guide shows how to set up your 2D project, switch between Unity and Autodesk, work with sprites A 2D graphic objects. If you are used to working in 3D, Sprites are essentially just standard textures but there are special techniques for combining and managing sprite textures for efficiency and convenience during development. More info See in Glossary , sort layers, and more. The Unity Game Designer Playbook This guide is designed to help experienced game designers learn how to prototype their ideas in Unity for more efficient creation and team collaboration. Learn about visual scripting, creating input, level design tools, microinteractions, and more. UI Toolkit for advanced Unity developers This guide for UI artists, UI designers, and UI programmers illustrates many features-in-action with examples from two official Unity UI Toolkit samples. Each section in the e-book focuses on specific toolsets, making it easy to choose the most relevant parts for your role. Introduction to game level design Written by professional level designers in the gaming industry and Unity product experts, this guide provides career tips and instructions on using Unity tools suited to worldbuilding, such as Unity ProBuilder and the Terrain The landscape in your scene. A Terrain GameObject adds a large flat plane to your scene and you can use the Terrain’s Inspector window to create a detailed landscape. More info See in Glossary system. DevOps Best practices for project organization and version control This guide explains the key concepts of version control A system for managing file changes. You can use Unity in conjunction with most common version control tools, including Perforce, Git, Mercurial and PlasticSCM. More info See in Glossary , compares some of the different version control systems available, and provides an introduction to additional Unity DevOps tools like Unity Asset Manager and Build Automation A continuous integration service for Unity projects that automates the process of creating builds on Unity’s servers. More info See in Glossary . Graphics & rendering Create popular shaders and visual effects with the Universal Render Pipeline This e-book covers the creation of versatile shaders and visual effects with URP in Unity 6. You’ll find steps for creating a toon and outline shader A program that runs on the GPU. More info See in Glossary with Shader Graph, creating X-ray-like image effects with stencils, and more. Introduction to the Universal Render Pipeline for advanced Unity creators Get in-depth guidance on how to set up URP for a new project, work with URP Quality Settings, Adaptive Probe Volumes, URP and custom shaders, HLSL includes, and more. Lighting and environments in the High Definition Render Pipeline in Unity 6 This edition of the e-book covers all the capabilities included in HDRP in Unity 6 and 6.1, such as lighting, environment effects, and performance and optimization. The definitive guide to creating advanced visual effects in Unity Use this comprehensive guide to learn how to incorporate the VFX Graph into your applications. It includes specific instructions on how to use the VFX Graph, and its related tools, to build real-time visual effects in Unity 6. Performance optimization Optimize your game performance for mobile, XR, and Web in Unity This guide brings together all the best and latest mobile, XR, and Unity Web performance optimization tips for Unity 6. Optimize your game performance for consoles and PCs in Unity This guide brings together all the best and latest PC and console performance optimization tips available in Unity 6. Ultimate guide to profiling Unity games This updated guide provides advanced knowledge and tips for profiling, memory management, and power consumption optimization with Unity 6 profiling tools. The Unity game dev field guide This guide helps you get familiar with the latest Unity features and workflows. It covers Editor navigation, setting up your development environment, Unity’s profiling tools, physics, and Input Systems. Tips to increase productivity with Unity 6 This 100+ page guide offers tips to speed up your workflows throughout every stage of game development. The guide focuses on Editor navigation, working in 2D, debugging and profiling, URP, HDRP, UI Toolkit, and more. Scripting Use a C# style guide for clean and scalable game code Read this guide to learn how to use and adapt existing industry standard code style guides. It explores the benefits of following consistent naming conventions, formatting, commenting on code, and more. The ultimate guide to multiplayer networking for advanced Unity developers Read this guide to explore the core concepts of Unity multiplayer, different multiplayer systems and networking The Unity system that enables multiplayer gaming across a computer network. More info See in Glossary models, and an example of using Netcode for GameObjects The fundamental object in Unity scenes, which can represent characters, props, scenery, cameras, waypoints, and more. A GameObject’s functionality is defined by the Components attached to it. More info See in Glossary . Introduction to DOTS concepts, features, & samples for advanced Unity developers Updated for Unity 6, this guide is a valuable primer for experienced Unity developers who are considering implementing Unity’s Data-Oriented Technology Stack (DOTS) in their projects. Create modular game architecture in Unity with ScriptableObjects This edition of the e-book assembles tips and tricks from professional developers for deploying ScriptableObjects in production. These include examples of how to apply them to specific design patterns and how to avoid common pitfalls. Level up your code with design patterns and SOLID This e-book explores SOLID principles and design patterns for game development with eleven practical examples to help you write maintainable and scalable game code. Unity Services UI Toolkit for advanced Unity developers Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09. Tutorials Community Answers Knowledge Base Forums Asset Store Terms of use Legal Privacy Policy Cookies Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
