// Unity Manual: Testing your code
// Section: Scripting
// URL: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/test-framework/test-framework-introduction.html

// Content:
Programming in Unity
Testing your code
TransfromHandle API examples
Get started with Unity Test Framework
Testing your code
Write tests for your Edit mode or Play mode code and run them through the Unity Editor’s
Test Runner
The Test Framework package (formerly called the Test Runner) is a Unity tool that tests your code in both Edit mode and Play mode, and also on target platforms such as Standalone, Android, or iOS.
More info
See in
Glossary
window, from the command line, or from code. Unity Test Framework integrates a custom version of
NUnit
, the open-source unit testing library for .NET languages and extends it with Unity-specific capabilities.
As an alternative to
NUnit tests
, Unity Test Framework provides
Unity tests
, which can interact with Unity-specific concepts such as frames, the application loop, and
domain reload
. A Unity test runs as a
coroutine
in Play mode and in the
EditorApplication.update
callback loop in Edit mode.
Unity tests can
yield instructions for the Unity Editor
. Once the instruction is complete, the test run continues. You can also
yield return null
in a Unity test to skip a frame and defer an operation until the next iteration of either the
EditorApplication.update
or the
per-frame game update
loop.
This documentation assumes you’re familiar with NUnit and with fundamental principles of unit testing in C#. If you’re not, refer to
Unit testing C# with NUnit and .NET Core
and
Unit testing best practices
in the Microsoft documentation.
Note
: Unity Test Framework is a
core Unity package
and is distributed as part of a Unity Editor installation. Unity Test Framework currently uses a custom version of NUnit based on version 3.5.
Topic
Description
Get started with Unity Test Framework
Create your first test assembly and sample Unity Test Framework tests.
Command-line reference
Run tests and configure test settings from the Unity Editor command line.
Writing tests
Write Unity tests for Edit mode or Play mode code with the Unity Test Framework C# APIs.
Running tests
Run Unity tests from the Editor’s
Test Runner
window, from the command line, or directly from code.
Unity Test Framework learning materials
Follow a practical tutorial with a series of exercises to help you learn the fundamentals of Unity Test Framework.
Additional resources
QA your code: The new Unity Test Framework (Unite Copenhagen)
Performance Testing Package for Unity Test Framework
TransfromHandle API examples
Get started with Unity Test Framework
Copyright ©2005-2026 Unity Technologies. All rights reserved. Built from 6000.3.5f1 (9e864d5a2e6f). Built on: 2026-01-09.
Tutorials
Community Answers
Knowledge Base
Forums
Asset Store
Terms of use
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings)
